Risks are categorised by severity(1-10) and likelyhood(1-10)

Reliability:
	All potential solutions:
		Failure to stay locked on to a position whether that be due to sensor noise or signal loss will lead to physical harm(S=10,L=10).
			With bluetooth signal loss due to radio interference is an issue since it operates on 2.4 ghz, so every mobile phone on elevates the noise floor on that frequency.
			With rfid tags sensor noise is an issue when there is more than one receiver in close proximity, since the receivers will not know which device initiated the ping, which will lead to inaccurate distance measures.
			With the ultrasonic solution sensor noise is a problem when additional sensors are introduced in close proximity. Similar to the rfid solution, distance measure become impossible if the noise floor is sufficiently elevated. There is however a unique solution when choosing this technology.
			With ultrasonic sensors the problem is compounded due to echos that can also lead to incorrect distance measures. There is also a unique solution to this problem.
		The concrete slabs that cover the cabling for the campus break often. Usually a cone is put at the site where the hole is, however tagging solution can detect that. Accidentally stepping in a hole will at the very least break a leg. This problem is compounded since the hole only gets marked by a cone once someone reports it (S=10,L=10).
	Bluetooth other obstacle tagging solutions:
		Not all obstacles on campus are marked. At any point in time new obstacles might be introduced by a number of ways, such as when there is construction on campus, the golf carts and cars(be it stationary or moving), people, bags and survey equipment the engineers use just to name a few. (S=8,L=10)
	Ultrasonic solution:
		Most ultrasonic sensors operate in the frequency range audible to dogs. This will cause severe discomfort to guide dogs in nearby proximity. We should choose an ultrasonic range sensor that is outside audible range, however those can be expensive, and there performance characteristics are unknown at this time. Further research is required.(L=8,S=4)
	
