Requirements:
	Phone with a camera and preferably a light for dark areas indoors.
	Not required but for improved accuracy, a magnetometer and accelerometer would help.
	Paint and resilient adhesive tape(this part is the only material expense of this solution).
	The paint will be used outdoors, while the adhesive tape will be used indoors.

Description:
	Safe routes are already identified as disability routes. These routes, using the 
	same paint that is used to make the foot marks for the fitness trail can be used 
	to paint a line along the disability routes. Maintenance of these lines can be 
	done in the same way the fitness trail paint is maintained. This solution is 
	resilient to weather and pedestrian traffic and requires no electronics on campus
	that can be stolen or vandalised. Compared to the other solutions we have researched,
	it will be the most cost effective solution for navigation, obstacle detection
	and the only solution that will provide reliable high accuracy positioning that is needed
	for the product to work.

	Using the disability lines across campus, a simple camera with a curve fitting algorithm
	already implemented in opencv can be used to determine the user's orientation with
	respect to the line as well as position after sufficient measurements are made.
	Haptic feedback(vibrations) can be used to make the user aware of how far he/she
	is deviating from the predetermined safe path. For example, if the user starts to drift
	or turn away from the line, the phone will vibrate in proportion to how far the
	user has drifted from the line. This eliminates the need for a GPS signal since
	the optical solution provides dead reckoning, that is, the user can only deviate
	from the path by a few centimeters due to the user being kept on track using haptic
	feedback.

	Further improvements(perhaps for future teams) to this solution could be to encode
	information by painting short parallel lines on either side of the main line.
	The length and position of these parallel lines are not essential since it only encodes
	information about the path, therefore it requires minimal training and effort
	to maintain the lines. In addition to the parallel lines, orthogonal lines can also be
	painted to indicated waypoints along the line. These waypoint lines might include entrances
	or indicators that the user will approach a turn in a few meters. This also provides an exact
	position update of the user's location at the waypoint. This means that the orthogonal
	lines will need to be maintained with a good degree of accuracy. The orthogonal lines are quite short,
	so a deviation of less than 5cm per maintenance run is expected if the maintainer does
	not pay a lot of attention to the accuracy of the line over which he/she is painting.

	Additional position clues, if the current position is unknown, can come in the form of
	turning points of the lines as well as the angle of the lines with respect to the earths
	magnetic field (using the compass built into most modern smartphones). However, in practice,
	the user will likely start at a known point, and so the starting coordinate will always be
	known beforehand. This feature is still usefull if a person gets lost be it a disabled student
	or not since they can start walking the line until the system determines their exact location.

Problems this solution can address:
	Obstacle detection along the safe path can be detected when there is a discontinuity in
	line. Of course the user needs some time to react, so the application will force the user
	to keep the camera oriented, through haptic feedback, at a ~45% degree angle with respect
	to the ground. These obstacles include anything that can break the continuity of the line,
	such as holes, bags, bicycles or any other obstruction. A caveat is that the application
	will produce false positives on occasion, for example, during autumn leaves may cause a 
	discontinuity in the path even though it is not a real threat. In any of the situations 
	that a discontinuity is detected the user must fall back on the use of a cane to find
	a safe path around the discontinuity.

	Awareness of disability routes is improved since a clear line is demarcated along the
	route. This will reduce the likelihood of people putting obstacles such as bicycles
	and bags along the routes thus making use of crowdsourcing to keep the paths clear.
	Reporting of obstacles by volunteers is made simpler since the volunteers are at least
	aware	of where the safe routes are, which means reports are restricted to safe routes
	thus reducing the burden on the volunteers.

	Information that can be coded into the line system:
	The current path code with error correction can be encoded using parallel lines
	thus allowing a lost user to lock on to a line and follow the line until sufficient
	information is collected to determine their exact location. Of course if GPS is available
	we should not restrict ourselves to using the lines exclusively.

	The location of turns, classrooms,office rooms and elevators, or any other relevant
	map features can be encoded with orthogonal lines a few meters before it is reached.

	The above mentioned coding schemes are simply suggestions and the very well might
	be a better way to encode information and provide greater accuracy and resilience.

Limitations:
	Obstacles that will go undetected are transparent objects such as glass panes
	and overhead obstacles that are low hanging. In addition, very short discontinuities
	might go undetected as well since the algorithm will have to smooth out some of
	the sensor noise to be usable. Empirical experiments will tell us how short these
	discontinuities will have to be to go undetected. Lastly, guide dogs will likely
	obstruct the lines as well as heavy pedestrian traffic. It might be possible to
	solve this algorithmically since dynamic discontinuities are not true obstructions.
